Main details:
-------------

Submission number:
4348


Title of presentation:
SeaIceRT: a python interface for a Delta-Eddington radiative transfer model


Presentation preferences:
Poster


The abstract:
Sunlight transmitted through snow and sea ice to the upper ocean plays an
important role in regulating biological activity in Polar regions,
determining the timing of initiations of algal and phytoplankton blooms.
Measurements of under-ice photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) are
available from field campaigns and from autonomous buoys. However,
understanding of the spatial distribution and time evolution of PAR for
larger regions and over longer time periods requires estimates of light
transmission through snow and sea ice from radiative transfer models. Even
intensive and observation rich field campaigns such as MOSAiC can only
collect measurements from a limited number of measurement points over
selected periods of time. Radiative transfer models can be used to "fill
in" gaps in the under ice light field, enabling observations of the
atmosphere, snow and ice characteristics, oceanography and biology
collected at distributed locations to be combined.

Here we present SeaIceRT, a python interface for the single column
Delta-Eddington sea ice radiative transfer model from the Community Ice
CodE (CICE) sea ice model used in the NCAR Community Earth System Model
version 2 (CESM2). The python code provides a simple interface to the
underlying FORTRAN radiative transfer model. Model parameters and forcing
variables (ice thickness, snow depth and density, and melt pond depth) can
be set and explored from an interactive environment such as ipython or
Jupyter notebooks, as well as incorporated into python scripts to estimate
under-ice light over periods of time, along transects or for grids for the
Arctic Ocean. We demonstrate setting up and running the model for several
transects collected during the MOSAiC cruise and for estimating
phytoplankton bloom onset for the Arctic Ocean. We hope that the software
package provides a framework for both simplifying and expanding access to
these modelling tools. SeaIceRT is open source software. Documentation
and code can be found at
https://github.com/andypbarrett/seaice_radiative_transfer.

